In the Western countries, there is this two-party
game. There is this Liberal, and the Conservative.
They would use terms like Democrats and Republicans.
One is modern and progressive, and the other
is traditional and conservative. In fact,
Churchill made this very interesting observation.
He said, "If you are not a liberal at twenty,
you have no heart. And, if you're not a conservative,
when you grow older, forty, you have no brain"!
Which is the right attitude to have? Should
we have both??
(Intro Music)
Namaste!
This person's name is Jon Postel. Jon Postel
is so famous as the father of the internet
(What is the Internet? An interconnection
of networks..) He is so famous as the Father
of the Internet that they even made a meme
out of this "professor teaching" photograph.
There is actually something like this! It
said, "If the Net does have a God, it is probably
Jon Postel". So, what DID he do, why did he
become so famous? Well, to get at the answer,
you will have to roll back time to forty years
ago. The time when the internet was just being
born. A time when even the Web wasn't born
yet. There were all kinds of different networks
all over the place.
This is actually the number of networks. There
was an LCSNet, an EDNNet, a ClarkNet, an ARPANet,
a COMSat, a Nullnet, a FiberNet, a BITNet…
Each talking its own language. Each, thinking
they are the best! And, somebody else is coming
along and saying, let's all work together,
who should give in, why should we, aren't
we better… that was the bickering that was
happening all around at that time, and Jon
Postel came up with a beautiful principle.
Today, it is even called Jon Postel's Law.
He called it The Robustness Principle. What
does Robustness mean? In plain terms, this
is what it is.
He said, "Be conservative in what you, and
be liberal in what you accept from others".
When a network tries to communicate with another
network, let what you speak out be a little
rule-bound always. But, if the others break
the rules, bend the rules, fragment, deface,
and twist it in any manner, try and be liberal
and understand it to the extent possible.
This simple principle can be pinpointed for
the real reason that made the internet possible.
Some of the greatest principles have this
unique quality. They are applicable outside
their original domain. Beyond what it was
originally applicable for, beyond where it
was originally proposed, these principles
seem to transcend, they become applicable
and useful elsewhere too, they snap into place
like a glove, that is a hallmark of a great
principle.
For example, take a look at this page. This
is a web page about web pages. Incidentally,
this web page is the oldest web page on the
World Wide Web. In the 1990s.. When Tim Berners
Lee was architecting the original web, this
was the first page he created for the web!
Oldest web page. HTML 1.0. If, even this oldest
page is viewable today, by modern browsers,
it is only because of this Robustness Principle.
Send me anything you want, I will liberally
accept it, and I will somehow manage to show
you something that might make sense… but,
when I show you something, when I output something,
it will be grammatically correct, accurate,
conservative. That is the robustness principle.
When it comes to English, people always wonder.
Why is it so popular? Wherever you turn, you
see that English has become the most powerful,
the most popular. Did you know there are as
many as 350 different languages and dialects
that have contributed words into the English
vocabulary? By one measure, as much as forty
percent of the words in the English language
are borrowed words, it seems. Dig a little
further, explore the Latin and Roman roots
of the language, and you realise that eighty
percent, a full eighty percent, that is, four
out of every five words in English, are borrowed!
Liberal in accepting from others, conservative
in what you do.
Which is why it pains me a little bit, when
I look at Tamil. I see a lot of efforts underway
to modernise Tamil, to make it relevant to
today's day and age, and to proudly tell the
world about its ancient heritage and greatness.
But, when a programmer is programming, if
that programmer encounters "Payanpaattu Niralaakka
Idaimugam", I don't know if that is adding
value to her. She sees API, and API makes
sense even if she is not an English speaker.
But, payanpaattu niralaakka idaimugam, sounds
a little too contrived. Done just for the
sake of it. Why not we be liberal in what
we accept from others, conservative in what
we give.
This image, many of you may recall. It is
a freeware tool, called IrfanView. It is probably
one of the most famous freeware tools on the
web. To watch, view, render, play, any kind
of visual media. Could be an image. Could
be in one of many formats. Just look at the
list. So many different formats. You can choose
any of those formats, throw any version of
those formats at it, as many as 75 or 80 different
formats, it says, No problem, I can render
it. Liberal at what it accepts from others.
That is one of the reasons for its fame. If
it is so globally popular, it is because its
creator, Irfan is his name, he took the effort
to make it accept anything that is thrown
at it. Conservative in what it gives out.
If you try Save command on it, there may perhaps
be three formats to save the image in. But
what does it accept? Seventy-five / eighty
different formats.
You would have bumped into this everywhere,
by now. QR Code. Quick Response Code, it is
called. You have it in PayTM. You Pay. PhonePe.
Google Pay. You find it inside everything.
Did you know that you can actually hold your
phone upside down to scan a QR Code? The three
large squares in three of its corners, and
the little square in the fourth corner are
enough to tell the camera that is scanning
it what orientation it is in. Even if you
scan it completely upside down on purpose,
"No problem, I will adjust". It contains error-correction,
it contains a sense of robustness. It is liberal
in what it accepts from you and me. That is
why it is famous.
On Google, if you search for a word, perhaps
"Quotidain" - instead of Quotidian, have
you noticed that it doesn't say that this
word doesn't exist? It instead switches to
the most common equivalent, probably you committed
a typing mistake, in your eagerness to watch
Quotidians, and it agrees, and says no problem,
I will show this to you, and if you really
wanted that, take a look. Robustness and liberality
in accepting whatever you throw at it.
You can stretch this same concept into team
management and family interactions too. In
a family, in a group, in a team, in a company,
in an organisation, each person, they will
come to you with their own biases, their own
agendas, their own points of view.. If you
have to shepherd all of them in one direction,
if you have to understand each of their opinions,
and judiciously, meaningfully, respond to
them, then, it makes sense to accept liberally
whatever they come up with. One of them may
draw it out for you. Another may speak it
out in a loud voice. Another may want to send
it to you only in writing. One more person
may speak volumes with her silence! Be liberal!
But, when you finalise, and come out with
your message, your conclusion, your summary,
make it so that it follows a certain grammar,
and everybody around understands what you
are trying to say.
Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity - in
Kolkata - there is folklore that its walls
sport a quotation by her. A poetry. Beautiful
poetry. Many would have surely heard about
it. I am not going to read through it word
by word. But, for example, it says "If you
are kind, people may accuse you of ulterior
motives. Be kind anyway." Similarly, forgive
them anyway. Be honest anyway. And so on and
on. The poem is titled "Anyway!". A beautiful,
emotionally loaded message. This is what life
is. This is how the world is. Be conservative
in how you treat them. Be liberal in what
you accept from them. That is the recurrent
theme. Postel's Law. A concept that goes far
beyond everything that we have seen till now.
A concept that is probably worth its weight
in gold. No wonder it is the God of the Internet
who has given us that law.
As a closing thought, I was researching about
this, and I stumbled across something very
interesting. While recalling the memory of
Mother Teresa, let us not forget the contribution
by Dr. Kent Keith too! He is still alive,
but, when he was a college kid, way back in
the seventies, at Harvard, he had come up
with this poem, this Anyway poem. It is he
who had originally penned it. The same repetitive
theme - Anyway, Anyway, Anyway, he had
published it in his college magazine. And
then, he had forgotten all about it, and become
famous for other things. Many decades later,
in a meeting, somebody had brought this up
and wanted to read a poem by Mother Teresa.
And, it immediately flashed in his mind that
these were HIS words! What did he do? He was
conservative in saying - I recall having
written this poem. He didn't sue the Mother!
He was also liberal in assigning credit to
the great Mother Teresa. Did the great Mother
Teresa choose to publish this poem in the
walls of her orphanage? Wow! I feel so humbled
and proud! And he had moved on!
So, be conservative in trying to steal credit.
Be liberal in giving away credit.
Thank you!